docs/develop/models.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
title: Models
---
import Keybinding from "@site/src/components/Keybinding";
import DbtCoreR from "@site/src/components/DbtCoreR";

When you open a <DbtCoreR /> model in Deep Channel, you'll edit the model with autocomplete suggestions and real time linting while having quick access to helpful insights about the model across four tabs: Overview, Linage, Compiled SQL, and Preview.

## Editing a model

### Autocomplete suggestions

### Go to Definition

### Hover to see schema

### Peek Definition

## Overview
The Overview tab shows you pertinent information about your model, including its name, documentation, computed schema, and action helpers to quickly run or test the models and its upstream/downstream models.

<img src="/product/model-overview.png"></img>


### Query a Model's relation
The **Relation** label will show you the fully qualified relation that that the model materializes. Click the arrow next to the relation name to open a new tab that queries the materialized relations.

<img src="/product/query-models-relation.png"></img>

### Run and Test helpers
You can quickly run or test the model, its parents, children, or parents and childrens using the **run** and **test** dropdowns.

<img src="/product/run-and-test-helpers.png"></img>

### Columns
You can quickly see the model's computed schema in the **Columns** section. Next to each column is its data type (if possible to compute). Clicking on a column will expose its description and tests.


<img src="/product/model-overview-columns.png"></img>

## Lineage
<img src="/product/model-lineage.png"></img>

## Compiled SQL
<img src="/product/model-compiled-sql.png"></img>

## Preview
<img src="/product/model-preview.png"></img>

Commit message:

feat: add View model YAML and Format Model

docs/develop/models.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
title: Models
---
import Keybinding from "@site/src/components/Keybinding";
import DbtCoreR from "@site/src/components/DbtCoreR";

When you open a <DbtCoreR /> model in Deep Channel, you'll edit the model with autocomplete suggestions and real time linting while having quick access to helpful insights about the model across four tabs: Overview, Linage, Compiled SQL, and Preview.

## Editing a model

### Autocomplete suggestions

### Go to Definition

### Hover to see schema

### Peek Definition

## Overview
The Overview tab shows you pertinent information about your model, including its name, documentation, computed schema, and action helpers to quickly run or test the models and its upstream/downstream models.

<img src="/product/model-overview.png"></img>


### Query a Model's relation
The **Relation** label will show you the fully qualified relation that that the model materializes. Click the arrow next to the relation name to open a new tab that queries the materialized relations.

<img src="/product/query-models-relation.png"></img>

### View model YAML
If your model is defined in a yaml file, the **YAML Definition** button will be active. Clicking it will open the YAML definition of that model in another tab.

### Format Model
If you have SQLFluff configured, pressing the **Format** button will format the current model based on your SQLFluff configuration.

### Run and Test helpers
You can quickly run or test the model, its parents, children, or parents and childrens using the **run** and **test** dropdowns.

<img src="/product/run-and-test-helpers.png"></img>

### Columns
You can quickly see the model's computed schema in the **Columns** section. Next to each column is its data type (if possible to compute). Clicking on a column will expose its description and tests.


<img src="/product/model-overview-columns.png"></img>

## Lineage
<img src="/product/model-lineage.png"></img>

## Compiled SQL
<img src="/product/model-compiled-sql.png"></img>

## Preview
<img src="/product/model-preview.png"></img>
