docs/projects.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
title: Projects
---


import Video from "@site/src/components/Video";
import DbtCoreR from "@site/src/components/DbtCoreR";
import AnchorNoRef from "@site/src/components/AnchorNoRef";


With your [profiles](/profiles) configured, you can now open an existing <DbtCoreR /> project or create a new one.


## Open a Project
If you already have a <DbtCoreR /> project on your computer, just click **Open dbt Project** and select the directory that has the **dbt_project.yml** in its root.


## Create a Project

Click **Create dbt Project**. Enter a name for your project, select the version of <DbtCoreR /> you wish to use, and then select a **Profile** and a **Target**. Click **Generate New Project** and choose a location on your computer to initialize the project.

<img src="/product/create-new-project.png"></img>


## Manage a Project

The name of your active dbt Project will be shown at the top of the app. Clicking it will show you details about the project, allow you to close the project, or copy the project path or name.

:::note
In the near future you will be able to quickly jump between multiple dbt projects.
:::

### Set the active profile and target
To the left of the active project is the active profile and target. Clicking that will allow you to change the profile and/or target as well as edit or refresh the contents of your **profiles.yml**.

<img src="/product/profile-and-target-selection.png"></img>


### Set the active dbt Core version

<DbtCoreR /> is embedded directly inside the app - you don't need to download or maintain installations of various versions. To upgrade or downgrade, simply click the selector and choose a different version. If you don't already have that version, it will be downloaded.

<img src="/product/dbt-version-selection.png"></img>

Commit message:

feat: add Set working directory

docs/projects.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
title: Projects
---


import Video from "@site/src/components/Video";
import DbtCoreR from "@site/src/components/DbtCoreR";
import AnchorNoRef from "@site/src/components/AnchorNoRef";


With your [profiles](/profiles) configured, you can now open an existing <DbtCoreR /> project or create a new one.


## Open a Project
If you already have a <DbtCoreR /> project on your computer, just click **Open dbt Project** and select the directory that has the **dbt_project.yml** in its root.


## Create a Project

Click **Create dbt Project**. Enter a name for your project, select the version of <DbtCoreR /> you wish to use, and then select a **Profile** and a **Target**. Click **Generate New Project** and choose a location on your computer to initialize the project.

<img src="/product/create-new-project.png"></img>


## Project Details

The name of your active dbt Project will be shown at the top of the app. Clicking it will show you details about the project, allowing you to close the project, copy the project's path or name, create a new project, or open a project.

### Set working directory

If the root of your open folder is not a dbt project, you will see a select allowing you to pick the working directory of the dbt project. This is helpful if your dbt project is nested in a larger folder structure, or if you have multiple dbt projects within a folder. 
<img src="/product/set-working-directory.png"></img>

### Open recent Project
You can quickly jump to a recently opened project by clicking the project name and then Open and selecting from the list of recent projects.

<img src="/product/open-recent-project.png"></img>

## Set profile and target
To the left of the active project is the active profile and target. Clicking that will allow you to change the profile and/or target as well as edit or refresh the contents of your **profiles.yml**.

<img src="/product/profile-and-target-selection.png"></img>


## Set dbt Core version

<DbtCoreR /> is embedded directly inside the app - you don't need to download or maintain installations of various versions. To upgrade or downgrade, simply click the selector and choose a different version. If you don't already have that version, it will be downloaded.

<img src="/product/dbt-version-selection.png"></img>
